#summary How to use Gibberizer.

=User Guide=

==Installation==

  * To install Gibberizer, download it onto your computer.

==System Requirements==

Gibberizer requires:
  * Java Runtime Environment (JRE) Version 6 or later.  If you don't have this intalled on your machine, you can get one from the [http://www.java.com/en/download/manual.jsp Java Download Page] (Sun Microsystems).  If you have an earlier version of the JRE, Gibberizer might work.  Or it may destroy Western Civilization.  I haven't tested for that.
  * A modicum of goofiness in the user.  I'm confident that you're goofy enough.  SRSLY KTHXBAI.

==Running Gibberizer==

  * Double-click on the jar file.

==Help==

  * For help when you're running Gibberizer, hover your mouse over any of the buttons or words in the Parameters area at the top of the Gibberizer window.
  * Or poke around on the [http://code.google.com/p/gibberizer/w/list Wiki].
  * Whatever you do, don't wake me up before noon.

==Parameters==

Gibberizer has four sets of knobs and buttons you can tweak:
  * *Read input as*:  These parameters tell Gibberizer how to read the text you enter:  As words, as lines, or as one big string of text.
  * *Create*:  These parameters tell Gibberizer how many gibs to create, how similar to make them to your input text, and how long to keep trying if the muse isn't working.
  * *Filters*:  These parameters tell Gibberizer what kinds of gibs it is allowed to deliver to you.
  * *Separate gibs by*:  These parameters tell Gibberizer how to format the gibs it creates.

These options are described in more detail below.

===Read input as:===

These parameters tell Gibberizer how to read the text you enter:  As words, as lines, or as one big string of text.

|| *Option* || *Effect* ||
|| *[ReadInputAsWords Words]* || Gibberizer reads your text as words.  That is, as strings of characters separated by white space. Use this when you want Gibberizer to create words that are similar to the words in your text. ||
|| *[ReadInputAsLines Lines]* || Gibberizer reads your text as lines.  Use this when you want Gibberizer to generate paragraphs that are similar to the paragraphs in your text. ||
|| *[ReadInputAsOneString One string]* || Gibberizer reads your text as a single string.  Use this when you want Gibberizer to create Gibberish that is similar to the whole chunk of text you entered. ||

===Create===

These parameters tell Gibberizer how many gibs to create, how similar to make them to your input text, and how long to keep trying if the muse isn't working.

|| *Option* || *Effect* ||
|| *[BatchSize Batch Size]* || The number of gibs to create. ||
|| *[Similarity Similarity]* || The similarity of the gibs to the input text. Lower numbers produce weirder gibberish.  Higher numbers produce more-and-more familiar gibberish.  Set this to 3 or 4 to create words or names.  Set it to 8 or higher to generate whole sentences that are _almost_ meaningful. ||
|| *[Persistence Persistence]* || This tells Gibberizer how long to try to create gibs that pass the filters (see below) before it gives up in despair. If you disallow duplicates and input echoes (see below), it may be impossible or sloooow for Gibberizer to create the number of gibs you've asked for.  A higher _persistence_ tells Gibberizer try harder, even if it takes a long time. ||

===Filters===

These parameters tell Gibberizer what kinds of gibs it is allowed to deliver to you.

|| *Option* || *Effect if checked* || *Effect if unchecked* ||
|| *[AllowInputEcho Allow input echo]* || Gibberizer may create gibs that match input strings. || Gibberizer creates only gibs that do not appear in your text. ||
|| *[AllowDuplicates Allow duplicates]* || Gibberizer may create multiple instances of a gib. || Gibberizer creates only unique gibs. ||

===Separate gibs by===

These parameters tell Gibberizer how to format the gibs it creates.

|| *Option* || *Effect* ||
|| *[SeparateGibsBySpaces Space]* || Gibberizer inserts a space between gibs. ||
|| *[SeparateGibsByNewLines New line]* || Gibberizer starts a new line before each gib. This is useful when you want to create names or words. ||
|| *[SeparateGibsByBlankLines Blank line]* || Gibberizer inserts a blank line between gibs. This is useful when Gibberizer is creating long chunks of text, such as when you tell it to read long paragraphs as lines or as one string.  ||