#summary A few ways to play with Gibberizer
#labels Featured

= Ways to Play with Gibberizer =

== Creating Names ==

  * Enter 20 or more names into Gibberizer.  Try:
    * First names from baby names web sites.
    * Last names from US Census Bureau listings.
    * The names of all of the US Presidents.
    * Names from Lord of the Rings.
    * Names from your family and friends.  I've created lots of good names for fantasy characters by Gibberizing 300 names from my genealogy.
  * Set Gibberizer to read your text as Words or Lines.
  * Set familiarity to 3 or 4.  A familiarity of 3 or 4 is good for playing with words or names.
  * Set Gibberizer to insert a New Line after each gib.
  * Maybe set Gibberizer to generate 1000 unique gibs.  This forces Gibberizer to work a little harder, which can cause it to create longer names.
  * Gibberize a whole bunch of times.
  * Fiddle with the knobs and Gibberize some more.

== Hysterical Documents ==

  * Enter the text of a historical document into Gibberizer.  Try one of these (or any other that tickles your fancy):
    * The Gettysburg Address.
    * The Bill of Rights.
    * The Gibberizer User Guide.
  * Set Gibberizer to read the text as Lines or One String.
  * Set familarity to 6 or higher.  A familiarity of 8 is often good.
    * A familiarity of 6 or higher is good for fiddling with not just words but whole phrases.
    * A familiarity of 8 or 10 makes The Gettysburg Address sound like Honest Abe on smack.
  * You may want to set Gibberizer to insert a blank line between gibs.
  * Gibberize a whole bunch of times.
  * Fiddle with the knobs and Gibberize some more.

== Your Own Writing ==
  * Enter a scene or section or chapter from your own writing.
  * Follow the directions for Hysterical Documents (above).
  * Gibberize a whole bunch of times.
  * Fiddle with the knobs and Gibberize some more.